[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: Dr. Jack
Kruse is here with us once
again to put some myths
to bed and tell us about
the incredible power
of our immune system,
and some tips to
boost it if we can.
I know I've got to tell you
right off, I'm afraid of you.
I'm not easily intimidated,
but you're so brilliant.
And your ideas here, your
knowledge is so vast.
It all comes together so fast.
I'm hanging on by
my fingernails,
meaning our audience is too.
So what I'll do is say, Jack,
can you say that in English?
Why don't you tell us-- can
you slow it down for us?
You know, deal with us.
So we want to start right off
with thank you for coming back.
I know you're a super
busy man, first.
>> JACK KRUSE: No problem.
>> REGINA: And we're going to
be looking at the immune system
in a different way.
And it's going to come down to--
a lot of it's coming
down to water and light.
And these are concepts
that haven't been brought
into the conversation, right?
>> KRUSE: Correct.
>> REGINA: OK.
So first of all, I was
all excited recently
because I read this article and
a study that had taken place
among 8,000 healthy
people, no apparent illness
had been noted at that point.
And when they did
their pathology
and they looked at
94 different factors,
they found in 42% of
them significant levels
of HIV, herpes, hep B
and C, papillo virus,
and other things.
And we're going to get back to
that in a moment, especially
the HIV portion of it.
So I thought, wow, these
T-cells are amazing.
But you're saying, but
wait a minute, right?
>> KRUSE: Well, you have
to go, wait a minute.
People have to understand
what a virus does.
It modifies mitochondrial
energy production.
So that tells us
right off the bat
that what's going on
in the environment
is actually a really big
deal for different people.
So for example, in
the COVID-19 story,
most people know that people
who are African-American
or Latino, who have darker
skin, are faring differently
than people with whiter
skin, especially when they're
in different latitudes.
>> REGINA: Yes.
But the thing is the media then
starts putting all this on,
like it has to do with poverty,
it has to do with diet,
and putting-- laying all
these other social commentary
over it.
And you're saying
that isn't true.
>> KRUSE: No, it's not.
This is a quantum
biologic problem.
What does that mean in English?
It means it's a
story about light.
And it turns out that
people who have darker skin,
whether Latino or
African-American,
are adapted from an evolutionary
basis within the 20's.
That's the Tropic of
Capricorn and Cancer,
why their skin is based to stay
out in the sun for longer times
to make the same
amount of vitamin D
that you and I can make.
You're likely an
uncoupled haplotype
from the top of the world.
I'm from the 59th latitude.
That's why I have freckles
on my skin because
of my Irish descent.
It means that you and I can
spend a little bit of time
out in the sun, raise our
vitamin D levels up enough
to control both our innate
and adaptive immunity.
If we had an African-American
family member,
they'd have to stay out there
four to five times as long.
And if you consider that
an African-American who
relocates to Detroit,
it should be no shock
why people are now starting to
see, even in the epidemiology,
that those people are having
a much bigger problem.
It's not a racial problem.
It's a quantum
biological problem.
And unfortunately, doctors
have not done a good job
understanding those issues.
>> REGINA: We have so many
things I want to get to with
you.
So we're looking
at the HIV factor
in COVID-19, how this occurred.
You're fully aware of it.
You're aware of Luc--
>> KRUSE: Montagnier.
>> REGINA: Montagnier, a Nobel
Prize winner in France that
brought this up very early on.
I read about it in February,
in the South China News
they brought it up as well.
Launch into this
story in plain English
so we can understand
you, and why
it's created such a shroud of
mystery, chaos, and confusion
around a "coronavirus."
>> KRUSE: Well, the number one
thing I'll say before I say any
of the facts, you need to
realize the fact checkers
on social media, the fact
checkers on Mockingbird media,
which is mainstream media,
they are going to try to quell
the story.
But there's a couple
of things, especially
the viewers in the United
States need to know.
Gain of function studies--
>> REGINA: Right.
>> KRUSE: Which are legal
in the United States,
this is the reason why you
will not hear about these.
>> REGINA: Explain
gain of function.
>> KRUSE: Gain of function
is basically where
in the laboratory we can mix
different proteins with viruses
to get a specific result,
either to get treatment,
or to find out more
about how a virus works.
Most people who are
going to watch a show
realize that HIV today still
doesn't have a vaccine.
We use protease inhibitors
to actually treat it.
Well, what they're
trying to figure out,
coronaviruses are the viruses
that most people know about
that cause the common cold.
They cause influenza.
We don't have-- contrary
to popular belief,
there's never been one
successful human coronavirus
vaccine.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> KRUSE: Yet when you hear
the people on mainstream news,
it's like, oh, at
the end of this year,
we're going to have a vaccine.
Well, we should
stop for a minute
and realize that this story goes
all the way back to the 1950s
when we had the polio
vaccine from Salk.
There was the biggest
medical mistake
probably in the 20th century.
It was called the
Cutter incident.
Most modern doctors today--
I'm old enough where
I learned about this
because it occurred to one of
the people in my residency.
But most modern doctors don't
realize that the vaccine wasn't
properly tested.
It was given in the 1950s
and sent all over the world.
And one of the countries that
got afflicted by it was China.
And basically what happened
with the original Salk vaccine
from this pharmaceutical
company called
Cutter is that people got
infected with a monkey virus
called SV40.
Now, for those people who
are paying attention at home,
SV means simian virus.
>> REGINA: Yep.
>> KRUSE: 40 means
there was 39 others.
It turns out there
was a whole bunch.
It turns out that if--
you and I are both old
enough to know this.
Your viewers may not be.
Where did HIV come from?
It came from a simian virus.
So if you were around during
the Reagan administration,
you may have remembered
that gate key fact is
that they believe it came
from Africans that we're
eating monkey brains.
That was the "story."
>> REGINA: No, it
was at Stanleyville,
at the facility in Stanleyville,
where they were doing it,
because I know a former member
of the intelligence community,
who has since deceased, who
would be around 80 years old
by now, who admitted he had
worked in that facility with
that.
>> KRUSE: Correct.
But what I was trying
to explain to you
is the story we got in
the Reagan administration.
So fast forward now to 2019.
Montagnier looked at the
protein that was present.
He noticed that Gp41,
which is an HIV protein,
was on this bat coronavirus.
And he said immediately
that was a sure fingerprint
that this was manufactured
for some reason.
The key that you
need to ask yourself,
why would a government
official who's
been in the administration
since Reagan
be allowed to transfer money?
Well, the number one reason
is gain of function studies
weren't able to be done
in the United States.
Number two issue
was did this have
something to do with
the Cutter incident that
goes all the way back.
And is that the reason why
China and the United States
now have this big
contentious trade war?
And why has coronavirus
become a political hot potato
versus a medical hot potato.
>> REGINA: So now we need
to talk about the production
of D3.
We need to talk
about the role of D3
in the production of T-cells.
So now in plain English tell
us how it works if we go
Dr. Jack's way.
>> KRUSE: OK.
Well, it's-- the only thing
you need to understand.
I'm going to use one term
you may or may not know.
It's called mitochondria.
Mitochondria, the best
way to think about it,
is the Ferrari engine
that's in your car.
It makes all the
energy in your body.
The input to that is
electron chain transport.
It's got a spinning
head called an ATPase.
Electron chain transport
uses electrons.
The ATPase uses protons.
So we're back at
negative and positive.
We're back to basic electricity.
So the battery in you
works by electric charge.
How does it work in you?
The sun is a cathode ray.
You live on a
planet called Earth.
That's an anode.
Anytime a cathode hits an
anode, free electrons come up.
So guess what.
Assuming you have leather
shoes on, or no shoes,
like I usually do, you get
free energy just from that.
It means you don't
have to eat as much.
You mentioned something earlier.
People who are heavier who
have low vitamin D status tend
to get COVID.
Now you're beginning to see.
Why?
Because they don't have
a big electric charge
in their colony of mitochondria.
Who else gets that problem?
It turns out if you have
African-American skin or Latin
skin, and you live
at a high latitude,
that's like being a cactus--
>> REGINA: Or if
you're indoors all day.
>> KRUSE: Well--
>> REGINA: Either way,
lifestyle's a big part of it.
We're going to get into
artificial light, too.
>> KRUSE: Right.
And that's a big deal,
because what happens,
you don't have that
charge in your system
to run your Ferrari engine.
So what do I teach people?
I teach people how to
maximize natural light,
minimize artificial light,
maximize water production,
because-- here's a big part--
mitochondria do the exact
opposite of photosynthesis.
So the last time
you had me on we
talked about how food
and photosynthesis link.
So let's give them a
quick recap very quickly.
You take CO2 from the air.
Take water and sunlight.
It makes sugar.
That's photosynthesis.
Everybody knows that.
What do mitochondria do?
They reverse that process.
So what do we do?
We take sugar and make
CO2, which we breathe out,
and we make water.
It turns out there's a special
chemical in your mitochondria
called cytochrome c oxidase.
You don't have to remember that.
But it's got four red
light chromophore.
It turns out the sun, the most
predominant part of the sun,
is red light, infrared-A.
42% of the sun is there.
>> REGINA: So now I've
got to stop you for a sec
because a lot of people here
have been hearing all about
the far and near
infrared devices.
I have one myself.
And we talked off camera.
And you said that
does not include--
>> KRUSE: Correct.
You want to use more
infrared-A over near infrared.
You have to realize--
>> REGINA: Infrared-A.
>> KRUSE: Yeah.
And infrared-A covers
the frequencies
between 600 and
1,000 nanometers.
That's the one that
is the most important
for mitochondrial health.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> KRUSE: That's what
you need to know.
So what are the four
red light chromophores?
620, 680, 760, 860.
That's what nature
has put in all of us.
That's the light that penetrates
our body 10 to 30 centimeters.
The other frequencies
of light don't do that.
So when you understand
that's the reason why
I want your skin and
eyes in the game,
because what does that do?
In your Ferrari that you may
have outside in the parking
lot, to keep the
engine's running,
you need to have a mechanic.
Well, guess what.
God or evolution,
whoever you believe in,
put two change programs
in you called autophagy
and apoptosis--
>> REGINA: OK.
>> KRUSE: That those two change
programs maximize your energy
efficiency.
So apoptosis is when you
take bad engines out.
In other words, they're so
bad they can't be fixed.
You just replace them.
Autophagy is the recycling of
the parts of your bad engine.
It's not bad enough.
We can fix it, and
make it better.
It turns out different
parts of the frequency
of sunlight controls those.
The last time you had me here,
I had a purple jacket on.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> KRUSE: Purple
because UV light.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> KRUSE: That
controls apoptosis.
That's the sun's--
>> REGINA: You have a
red jacket on today.
You're just not
wearing it on set.
It was a beautiful red, claré.
>> KRUSE: And the reason
why I wore the red is
because the other
side is autophagy.
And autophagy recycles all
the things in the cell.
Why is this a big deal?
Let's cycle it back
to cytochrome--
I should say to COVID-19.
It turns out that
autophagy controls
innate and adaptive immunity.
Most people don't know that.
Well, guess what--
>> REGINA: Say that again.
>> KRUSE: It turns out that
autophagy in the mitochondria
controls your efficiency to
fight off bacterial, fungal,
and viral infections.
How does this work?
It's very complicated,
but bottom line
is everybody knows that
those things present antigens
to the immune system.
Well, the COVID-19
antigen has to be
presented to something
called MHC-I. Well,
guess what does that.
What process in your
mitochondria does that?
Autophagy.
So guess what.
If you live in an
office building,
or you're African-American
and you live in Detroit
and you never go
outside, or you're
400 pounds because
you never go outside
and you watch Jerry Springer
all day, guess what happens.
You cannot present the antigen
to the immune system so that
you can make antibodies
from your B-cells.
So in other words,
what am I saying?
You're energy inefficient.
Therefore, you can't do what
mother nature put in you.
>> REGINA: You can't
create antibodies.
And what about T-cells?
>> KRUSE: T-cells are
part of the other side,
which is the adaptive
immune system.
The adaptive immune
system allows
us to take out infected cells.
So even if you do get infected,
the natural killer T-cells
can get rid of them.
What's the T-cell that
controls the whole process?
It's called the T
regulator cells.
T regulator cells actually
inform the B-cells.
The B-cells are what makes the
antibody that, hey, there's
COVID-19 in our system.
We need to mount an antibody
response to get rid of that.
The antibodies
mark the cells that
are infected so the
natural killer cells can
come and take them out.
This can't happen.
So basically what I'm telling
you is when you understand
that the thing that controls
both innate and adaptive
immunity is actually
mitochondrial autophagy,
you've got to ask yourself,
how much do I know about this?
How much does my
doctor know about this?
>> REGINA: Zippo.
>> KRUSE: Right.
And most doctors
don't realize it.
But what doctors
do know is they do
know that vitamin D levels are
a proxy for how well autophagy
and apoptosis work.
>> REGINA: Well, and we have
kind of en masse a deficiency
of vitamin D. Almost everyone
that gets their labs back are
deficient in vitamin D.
>> KRUSE: Correct.
Well, the reason why
is because the way we
live our life in America.
We tend to live it
under artificial light,
on camera, inside of
offices, behind glass.
I mentioned to you
before we came out here.
Just by being behind
glass-- people
don't realize this-- it blocks
all the purple UV light.
It blocks 40% to 60%
of the red light.
But it has no effect on the
blue light that's in the sun.
So on a relative basis,
you're blue light
toxic just by living inside.
One of the major
diseases that are not
really related to COVID, but
is tied to it is fibromyalgia.
It's usually an inside
disease because people
are blue light toxic.
Most people talk about it from
cell phones and computers.
I want people to know the
biggest immune help is this.
If you're an inside
person, put these on.
>> REGINA: We were
talking about this.
You look like Sonny Bono.
You look like you're chilling
in Haight-Ashbury in the '60s.
>> KRUSE: Well, the reason
why these are important,
what do they do?
It blocks--
>> REGINA: Orange,
they're orange, right?
>> KRUSE: They're orange, but
they block 435 to 465 light,
which turns out to be the
things that make chemicals
in your body that are
called "free radicals"
that actually destroy innate
and adaptive immunity.
So guess what.
This is something you want to
wear when you're in blue light.
When you're outside,
you do not want
to put a tarp over your eyes.
Why?
Because you want the natural
parts of sunlight in so that
the innate and adaptive
system are programmed properly
by that big ball
of gas in the sky.
>> REGINA: OK.
Now, this is just a slight
detour here for a moment.
Someone like me, who wears
hard contact lenses--
>> KRUSE: You don't
want to talk to me.
>> REGINA: And that's
why I'm asking.
>> KRUSE: Well,
the reason why is--
>> REGINA: They're kind of a
soft green so I can find them
when they fall in the water.
>> KRUSE: Yeah.
And the reason
why you don't want
to do that-- you and I are
at your house in California.
We plant an orange tree.
Your boyfriend comes out,
and puts all the nutrients,
and everything in the
ground, and then you come out
and put a tarp over it.
Are we going to get any oranges?
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> KRUSE: All right, Regina--
>> REGINA: We happen to grow
mandarin oranges on our farm.
>> KRUSE: Regina, I want
you to think about this.
You know that all contact lenses
affect the frequency of light
from the sun.
>> REGINA: Yeah, I know this.
Yeah.
>> KRUSE: What sits 3
inches behind your eye?
Your pituitary gland.
>> REGINA: Pituitary.
>> KRUSE: What does it make?
It makes all the
chemicals in your body.
What's the one that we talked
about earlier with you?
ACTH and POMC.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> KRUSE: And thyroid
hormone, and things like that.
People will be
shocked to hear this.
Thyroid hormone and
melanin in your skin,
which is tied to this
C-19 story, guess what.
it's made from tyrosine.
You know that kinase that
we talked about before?
It's tied to that.
So people who have
hypothyroidism and white skin
need more sun to
become an absorber
of electromagnetic
radiation from the sun.
So guess what.
This is the real reason why
low vitamin D levels are
tied to a higher risk of C-19.
See, the story isn't as simple--
>> REGINA: COVID-19.
>> KRUSE: Exactly right.
It's not as simple
as people think.
But I want to make sure
that they understand.
Being in the sun is not
equivalent to taking vitamin D
pills.
That's OK for a
short period of time,
but you need to have
your skin and your eyes
in the game of
nature if you want
to have a strong immune system.
>> REGINA: Well, it's
interesting because Sweden
spends most of their time not
in the sun, as a matter of fact.
So it's interesting that they--
>> KRUSE: From the latitude.
>> REGINA: From the
latitude point of view.
>> KRUSE: But what do Swedes do?
Let's talk about that.
>> REGINA: Well, they're much
more invested in their health
than were we.
>> KRUSE: No.
They're much more
outdoor than we are.
Why?
>> REGINA: That's
what-- yes, they are.
>> KRUSE: And what
do they do there?
They cross-country
ski, and they ski.
>> REGINA: Yeah, they do.
>> KRUSE: How do they get
their sun even when it's weak?
It's called the albedo
effect off the snow.
>> REGINA: Yeah, that's true.
>> KRUSE: You have
the same effect when
you're in California,
and you go out on a boat.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> KRUSE: Most people out
there will wear Chanel glasses
to block the UV light.
You don't want to do that.
You want to be out there.
That's why you see my
face the way it is.
I just came from Destin.
I'm not afraid of the sun.
I don't believe what
the dermatologists
and ophthalmologists
are selling.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
I don't either.
>> KRUSE: Because guess what.
We're designed by nature
to live in nature.
When we need to get
out of the sun, when
we don't have a
good solar callus,
we'll do what a kangaroo
does or what a lion does.
We go under a tree.
Unfortunately, we do
things crazier than that.
We go inside behind glass that
further alters the spectrum.
And the problem is
most people don't even
realize how that's a big deal.
Or we'll go and buy an iPad and
blow our eyes out from that.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> KRUSE: That's
what gets us sick.
>> REGINA: OK.
So let's talk really
practically here.
So I think you have people's
attention about getting out
in the sunshine if they
have proximity to it.
So is it OK to go out earlier in
the day, like 8:00, 9:00, 10:00
in the morning instead
of at high noon.
Like I just feel like it's
frying me any time after 11:00.
>> KRUSE: We do have
to talk about this.
>> REGINA: Let's talk about it.
>> KRUSE: Because
the answer is yes,
but then you have to
realize there's a context.
This is where being a
doctor is a big deal.
If I would tell
you the number one
thing for COVID-19
prescription is
you must see the
sunrise every morning.
Why?
>> REGINA: That's the best time.
>> KRUSE: Right.
And that sets the
circadian rhythms
in your body that
control B and T cells.
Most of that light is
what we call red light.
>> REGINA: And let that in
your eyes when it's rising.
>> KRUSE: On your skin, too.
>> REGINA: You can feel it.
>> KRUSE: Be as naked as you
possibly can be when you do
that.
That, I would tell you, is
probably 80% of the battle.
The key is you mentioned
you don't like midday sun.
But remember.
How do you make vitamin D?
You only make it
during solar noon.
Now, that changes with seasons.
It depends on the latitude.
It also depends on what's
your Fitzpatrick skin type.
You and I are both ones.
We can make vitamin
D relatively quick,
depending on where we're at.
>> REGINA: So if you went
in the noonday sun as kind
of a Caucasian pale
folks, more or less,
how long do you need
to be in the sun?
>> KRUSE: Well, that's where
I'm going to tell you you have
to build your solar callus.
You have to use red
light to do that.
Why?
Because when you have
red light on your skin,
it preconditions your skin so
when you go out in UV light
you don't get French
fried like a lobster.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> KRUSE: That's actually how
nature's built us to work.
The problem is that's
not how we live our life.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> KRUSE: Most people stay
in, and they just go out
in the midday sun,
and they get red.
If you understand
how to do this,
then you can get the UV light to
convert cholesterol to vitamin
D so that you make it.
The key thing is you don't
need as much as you think.
The key is it's going to depend
on what your vitamin D level is
before you start this process.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> KRUSE: What it is now.
For example, I
just had mine done.
As a guy who's from Ireland
at the 59th latitude,
I'm at 121 naturally.
I don't supplement.
So you need to understand
how to use the sun,
but I would tell
you, if you start,
the first hour of sunlight
in the morning's important.
I would even tell you the last
hour of sunlight before sunset.
>> REGINA: That's
when I like it.
>> KRUSE: Because it's
mostly balanced by red.
But you have to be in it.
You still need that
midday, but you only
need to probably precondition
your skin 10 or 15 minutes.
And as you get more
of that red light,
you can use more
of the midday sun
to get your vitamin
D levels up high.
Because what is the COVID-19
"range" for Jack Kruse?
60 to 120 nanograms.
>> REGINA: Most
people are like at 10.
>> KRUSE: Well, I
wouldn't say 10.
But they're below 30.
>> REGINA: Oh, yeah.
>> KRUSE: And the reference
range for most of the labs
in the United
States is 30 to 100.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> KRUSE: Europe has
different metrics.
>> REGINA: And you're
saying 60 to 120.
>> KRUSE: 120.
Right.
And it's the same thing for
women with breast cancer.
I tell them I want
them that level so
that they can
protect themselves,
because I believe
that the sun is
a vaccine for all mitochondrial
diseases, not just C-19.
>> REGINA: Right.
That makes total sense.
Can I share one
little thing with you?
>> KRUSE: Sure.
>> REGINA: So about
25, 30 years ago,
I was reading about the sun,
everything you're talking
about, except not quite as much
as you're talking about it.
And I thought, OK,
let's do this thing.
It was winter, January.
And so I had a friend that
was handy at carpentry
build what I called a sun
box, and my friends called--
because they were
being hypnotized
by the media-- a solar coffin.
And what it was was this little
three-sided plywood thing.
So your little lawn chair,
you're sitting at an angle.
It would cover your body
from the sides and the ends
so you could lie in privacy
even in a small postage stamp
backyard, unless someone
was looking down on you,
and you could nude sunbathe.
>> KRUSE: Well, you know what?
We have different
things now, Regina.
We have things called Kinikis.
>> REGINA: What's that?
>> KRUSE: Those are bathing
suits and smocks for ladies
that allow the sun to
go right through them.
So I tell all my ladies that.
>> REGINA: That's great.
>> KRUSE: Guys, I want them out
as buck ass naked as they can
get.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
A little more modest.
>> KRUSE: Right.
Until they build
up their callus.
But for ladies,
it's a bigger deal.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> KRUSE: Because there's
other issues with them.
>> REGINA: Well, your
breasts and everything.
>> KRUSE: Like breast
cancer and things like that.
But guys, it's a big deal,
because the correlate
for female breast cancer is
actually male prostate cancer.
Those are both
epithelial diseases that
are linked to vitamin D levels.
>> REGINA: OK.
Interesting.
>> KRUSE: So the reason
why this is all important,
because, remember, cancer is
also an immune disregulation
problem of mitochondria.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> KRUSE: So when you
begin to understand, hey,
this isn't just a C-19 story.
There is a bigger story
going on here about really
how our immune system
works or doesn't work.
Almost every epithelial cancer
in humans is tied to what?
Low vitamin D levels, and
that includes the cancers
that the dermatologists
worry about.
And this is why I always
bring this point up
to dermatologists.
You tell people to put sun cream
on and wear all these things.
But why is it that melanoma,
squamous cell and basal
cell are always associated
with low vitamin D levels
if the sun causes the disease?
>> REGINA: Right.
>> KRUSE: It turns out--
>> REGINA: Good question.
>> KRUSE: It's not that.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> KRUSE: It's the
artificial light--
>> REGINA: Right.
>> KRUSE: That we allow
in our environment.
>> REGINA: And then what about--
you were looking at HCQ zinc
and Z-Pak if someone happens
to become symptomatic.
>> KRUSE: Correct.
The reason why these
work, hydrochloroquine
is an antibiotic.
Everybody knows that
it's used for malaria.
But it has other effects.
One of the effects that it
has, it actually works directly
on your mitochondria.
It tends to work better
earlier in the disease process.
But what does it
functionally do?
It's actually a zinc ionophore.
It turns out zinc is actually
one of the things that
blocks viral replication.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> KRUSE: It has a lot
of different effects,
but it's a big deal.
Zinc is also important
in photoisomerization,
the step that makes
vitamin D in your skin.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> KRUSE: So you're beginning
to see, oh, wow, look at that.
We're back at that story again.
>> REGINA: These are all links.
Right.
>> KRUSE: And it turns
out zinc is also important
for your mitochondria
making water in your body.
So there is the light
and the water side of it.
See, most doctors
believe that HCQ is only
a malarial antibiotic.
They don't understand how that
antibiotic alters autophagy
in mitochondria to make energy.
So the key is if that
can help you make
more energy, what does that do?
It improves innate
and adaptive immunity
so you can stay away
and fight the disease.
And it's not just
that medicine does it.
There's another one
called ivermectin.
That's an antiparasitic
medicine that works.
There's another one that
they're using in Houston.
I forget the name of it,
but it's like RHS 100.
They've started using that.
What is that?
It's also a medicine that
works on mitochondrial energy
production.
So why do I keep saying this?
I want people to
know that anything
that improves mitochondrial
function will help.
You asked me a question before
we came on about coenzyme Q10.
And I said to you,
coenzyme Q10 shuttles
electrons from cytochrome
1 to cytochrome 3.
Guess what.
That's going to improve
energy production.
That's the reason why it helps.
You have to realize
that if you just look--
>> REGINA: It affects all
cellular function, right?
>> KRUSE: It affects a
lot of different things.
But not everybody can get
the benefit of coenzyme Q10
if it turns out their
respiratory proteins
on the mitochondria
are spread out.
Coenzyme Q10 doesn't
have as big an effect.
Why?
Because they have to be within
a certain quantum distance.
>> REGINA: So how would
we even know that?
You just throw some in--
>> KRUSE: Get out in the sun.
We already covered it.
>> REGINA: OK.
OK.
Good.
I don't know if this
is appropriate or not,
but I think it--
you just tell me.
Because of this HIV
factor with COVID,
so I've been doing
a lot of research
and looking everywhere
for everything.
In one article I read--
it came through a
series of events--
had to do with a fellow at
a recent AIDS conference.
And I think it was
in South America.
They found this one man who had
been HIV positive, who had it
completely cleared
from the body using
a radical technique with
niacinamide or nicotinamide.
>> KRUSE: Right.
>> REGINA: B3, and
a retrovirus drug.
>> KRUSE: Right.
>> REGINA: So now how
does that play into it?
>> KRUSE: I love that you
asked me this question,
but we probably need
another hour on it.
>> REGINA: Oh, geez.
OK.
Is there any like--
>> KRUSE: Well, cytochrome
1, just so you know,
what's the couple?
It's NAD+ and NADH.
Guess what.
What makes that?
Tryptophan.
Tryptophan is the
base of vitamin B3.
What do you need to
know about tryptophan?
It's an aromatic amino acid.
What does that mean in English?
It gets programmed by sunlight.
>> REGINA: So are we?
>> KRUSE: So we're back.
>> REGINA: We're good to take a
little niacin or nicotinamide?
>> KRUSE: I tell my
people not to do that.
>> REGINA: Don't do it.
OK.
>> KRUSE: And the reason why,
the better answer is to allow
your body to program
that naturally.
>> REGINA: Go
through that process.
OK.
>> KRUSE: And the key really is
there when you understand truly
when tryptophan is all about.
Not only does is
make melatonin--
>> REGINA: Not just your dinner.
>> KRUSE: No, it
makes melatonin,
but it also makes
serotonin in your body.
But the problem is if you're
not out getting it programmed,
when you take a
supplement or you
eat too much turkey, which
I'm not a big fan of,
you can create other problems.
In other words, the way our
system is designed to work
is it's quantized.
The amount of light
you get determines
how that couple works.
And it turns out cytochrome
1, where NAD+ is,
makes one of the key free
radicals in your body,
which brings in the third leg of
the stool that I talk to people
about, which is free radicals.
Why are free radicals a
big deal for your audience
to understand?
Because, remember, I told you.
It's light, water, magnetism.
What haven't we
talked about at all?
Magnetism.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Right.
>> KRUSE: The reason
why is free radicals.
>> REGINA: I just read an
article on that yesterday.
Go ahead.
>> KRUSE: Free radicals
have one unpaired electron.
Anything that has one
valence electron is magnetic.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> KRUSE: What's the other thing
that's magnetic in this whole
dance that we're talking about?
Did you know that oxygen is
the only paramagnetic gas
on the periodic table?
And what's the terminal electron
acceptor for mitochondria?
What do we breathe?
Oxygen.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> KRUSE: So what
does that mean?
Oxygen is drawn to things
that make magnetic fields.
So that spinning ATPase
that we talked about before,
it makes a magnetic field.
How do you know what Jack is
telling you right now is true?
We have these special
machines in hospitals
called MEG machines.
Those are magnetoencephalograms.
We now know that the human
heart creates a magnetic field
22 feet away.
In fact, your and I's magnetic
field are interacting.
Our brain also has one.
Well, guess what.
It turns out that that is made
from the free radical signal
that's made at cytochrome 1.
What's that free radical called?
Superoxide.
That's how it works.
And guess what.
Superoxide is made from oxygen
that's not used in metabolism.
So I just gave you a
really deep dive into this.
>> REGINA: OK.
So now, OK, sunlight.
Oh, how about zinc?
I mean, should we do
zinc supplementation?
You just mentioned
that a moment ago.
>> KRUSE: If you have bad
mitochondrial function,
if you have poor
readouts, I'd say yes.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> KRUSE: Or if you happen
to develop the symptoms,
like say you lose
smell and taste, yeah,
I think that's where you
actually start stepping
on things.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> KRUSE: There's other
things out there to use.
Can you use nicotine?
Yes, because it
turns out the spike--
>> REGINA: I was going
to bring that up next.
>> KRUSE: The spike
protein actually works with
nicotine-related things.
In fact, one of the
things that we found out--
>> REGINA: That was one
of the quirky things.
Exactly.
Smokers weren't as--
>> KRUSE: Right.
We found that in Italy.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> KRUSE: Italy,
people were stunned.
They were like, wait, this
is a respiratory virus,
but people who smoke--
>> REGINA: Smoke like crazy.
>> KRUSE: Didn't get it as bad.
Well, it's because the
spike protein uses that.
There's some homology there in
the way the virus was built.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> KRUSE: So I tell people I
don't want you to go smoke,
because it's going to affect--
I'd rather you use
just nicotine gum.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> KRUSE: So you could
use nicotine gum to reduce
your risk.
That's one of the things
you could do with zinc.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
>> KRUSE: Another ionophore,
if you don't want to use
the antibiotic because you can't
get it because of the federal
government, quercetin.
Quercetin is a supplement
that you can use.
It's usually found in
the skins of grapes.
It's also found in
the skins of apples.
>> REGINA: You can buy
that on the market.
>> KRUSE: You can
buy it on the market.
>> REGINA: I thought it
was called "caresitin."
It's called quercetin.
OK.
That's what it is.
>> KRUSE: That's like
tomato, "tomahto."
>> REGINA: It is.
>> KRUSE: It's the same thing.
>> REGINA: It's the same
thing we're talking about.
OK.
Good.
>> KRUSE: Exactly.
The key is that's a zinc
ionophore that people
can get their hands on.
And the reason I tell
my people about it
is because
hydroxychloroquine has
been so demonized in the media.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> KRUSE: Just go to another
option, and you've got it.
>> REGINA: So "caresitin"
or quercetin, right.
Either way.
OK.
Melatonin use,
because that comes in.
>> KRUSE: Controversial.
I'm going to tell you
my position on this
is if you have an acute
infection, and say you're weak,
say you have bad redox,
say you're diabetic,
overweight, that's
the person that I
can get behind using the
melatonin to offset the risk.
If it was me, I
would never use it.
The reason why, when
you use exogenous
melatonin, what does it do?
It reduces melatonin
production in your body.
What's the long-term
effect of using that?
I have a biohack out there that
if you put my name in a Google
box, biohack 722.
It thins your retina.
That's one of the big
reasons people get AMD.
So if you're going to do--
>> REGINA: AMD?
>> KRUSE: Acute
macular degeneration,
which is another
blue light disease.
Why?
>> REGINA: Melatonin.
>> KRUSE: What does blue
light destroy, Regina?
Melatonin.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> KRUSE: What is
melatonin made from?
Tryptophan.
Oh, we're back to
that story again.
>> REGINA: OK.
>> KRUSE: You see?
So I'm OK with melatonin use
if you have an acute infection.
I just don't want anybody
to watch this program
and think that's a great idea
to use long-term with no risk,
because the long-term use
of melatonin is a problem.
>> REGINA: So many people
are using it just to sleep,
especially women,
because women--
>> KRUSE: Well, how about kids?
They're the number ones because
they're addicted to technology.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> KRUSE: Do you know
what the answer is?
>> REGINA: What?
Pull the plug, or orange lights.
>> KRUSE: No.
This is the answer.
>> REGINA: Orange glasses.
>> KRUSE: Because you
know what this does?
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> KRUSE: This preserves-- one
of the big benefits of wearing
blue-blocking glasses
is it preserves DHA,
which is fish oil in your
essential retinal pathways.
That's actually what creates
the melatonin in your eyes.
So guess what people
don't understand.
Melatonin is made
by AM sunlight.
I bet you didn't know that.
>> REGINA: I did.
>> KRUSE: But it's the
hormone of darkness.
It only acts to release
is electrons at night
after your body temperature
falls 2 to 4 degrees.
>> REGINA: This was
a really good idea.
>> KRUSE: That's the
reason I brought it.
You know why this is important
for me to explain to you
while we're on camera?
It's because by putting
these glasses on,
since you know we're around
all this blue light, what
I want you to understand is this
protects my free radical signal
in these pathways so that
I'm going to be able to sleep
tonight when I'm done with you.
>> REGINA: OK.
Well, you're about done with me.
We're out of time.
Jack, I just can't
thank you enough.
I mean, like I said,
people are going
to have to watch
this again and again.
I will as well, and
stop, look at, go ahead
and do a little research on each
thing that you've said here.
But again, the story
sounds relatively simple.
We need to go back to
living how we were intended.
>> KRUSE: Well, the way we were
built. We were built to be--
this is the real story of us.
We seem to think that we're
immune to the laws of evolution
and the laws of nature.
You have to realize we're still
tied to it by the same fabric.
What I want people
to realize is what
makes us special as mammals,
we have this thing in our head.
Me as a neurosurgeon knows a lot
about this thing that allows us
to break all of nature's laws.
And you have to realize,
when you break them
in innocuous ways, there's
biologic consequences for that.
The consequence that we talked
about today was why do certain
people get C-19 and
other people's don't.
I'm going to tell you
the reason for that
is because those people are
breaking more of nature's rules
than they should.
That's really the
take-home story.
What I want them to understand
is how they can do things.
Pay attention to the
doctor in their own head.
>> REGINA: And you know, maybe
that's the gift of COVID.
For the first time we've had
to dive down the rabbit hole
en masse.
>> KRUSE: Correct.
>> REGINA: And start
understanding what the immune
system is, how it functions,
and what it's asking of us.
>> KRUSE: But what I
said to several people--
and I don't know how
you feel about this,
but I'd be interested
in your feedback.
I believe that COVID-19
for me, in terms
of how I teach mitochondrial
medicine, more people are going
to come to me now because
they're going to realize what's
out there in conventional
wisdom, doctoring,
hasn't had any huge
effect on their health.
The answer for
them is a vaccine.
And we've spent an
hour here discussing
how there's a lot of
different things we can do--
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>> KRUSE: That actually improve
our mitochondrial health,
and don't put us at risk.
>> REGINA: Well, like I
said, I've signed up for you.
I mean, I'm totally on board
with what you're saying.
But I, too, spend too
much time indoors.
>> KRUSE: We all do.
>> REGINA: Outside of going--
doing my bicycle ride at
7:30/8 in the morning,
we all need to start
getting back in touch,
because as soon as
you're out in the sun,
you feel that
vitality in your body.
You feel more alive, and
then we forget about it.
So thank you.
>> KRUSE: The last thing
I'm going to end on is this.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> KRUSE: The reason why we
are designed to be addicted
to the sun-- and this ties
to what I said to you before
the interview, and I
hope this stays in.
That chemical POMC that I
told you about, P-O-M-C,
do you know one of the
things that it makes?
>> REGINA: What?
>> KRUSE: It makes
an endogenous opiate.
>> REGINA: Opiate.
>> KRUSE: You've learned about
this opiate when it comes
to exercise.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> KRUSE: Well, it turns out,
you know what stimulates it
more than anything else?
Sunlight.
>> REGINA: As soon as
you're out in the sun,
you feel so relaxed.
>> KRUSE: That's beta endorphin.
So guess what happens.
People that don't
live that way, they
tend to work at night, like
Michael Jackson, Chester
Bennington.
>> REGINA: Right.
Not good.
>> KRUSE: And what do they do?
They use exogenous opiates.
So did I just tell
you that maybe there's
a link to the light that
we live under and maybe
the opiate crisis that we have?
That's exactly what I'm saying.
>> REGINA: That's beautiful.
Thank you so much.
>> KRUSE: No problem.
>> REGINA: And now, where's
the best place to get a hold
of you?
Because I'm going to tell people
go to your Patreon account.
Sign up so you can kind of
keep in connection with you.
>> KRUSE: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Where would
you best have people go?
>> KRUSE: Probably the
website, www.kruseatdestin.com.
>> REGINA: K-R-U-S-E.
>> KRUSE: Right.
And the Patreon blog, if you
just want to get a small flavor
of Jack, it's www.patreon--
P-A-T-R-E-O-N--
.com/drjackkruse.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
Good.
Well, that's where
I've been going.
Jack, again, thank you.
I think this has been
absolutely invaluable.
And I hope it's not only that.
I hope it has started building
a bridge between thinkers
of all persuasions,
politically, and otherwise.
>> KRUSE: It's always about
survival of the wisest.
>> REGINA: It absolutely is.
I love it.
I'm going to start using that.
I'll co-opt it.
Thank you so much.
>> KRUSE: All righty.
>> REGINA: As we just said,
you can find him on Patreon--
at DrJackKruse-- .com.
And you can also find him on
his website, which we just
mentioned.
Meanwhile, you might also enjoy
my previous conversations here
in the Gaia archives with Jack.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]